# Asset Management Model

<Seo/>

Devices are often deployed in association with real-world assets which derive
some service from the device. Use cases include:

- a tracking device associated with an automobile in the fleet-tracking vertical
- a badge associated with a person in the security vertical
- a heart monitor associated with a bed in a healthcare veritcal

SiteWhere provides an asset management model for storing assets that may be
associated with system devices. External asset management systems may be
provided based on the same set of APIs in cases where assets need to be
managed externally.

## Asset Associations

The concept of an asset is used to associate a device with a real-world
entity such as a person or physical object. Since asset information is
passed on to events generated by a device, it is possible to query for
events based on the assets they are linked to. This information can be used
by external services such as machine learning algorithms to infer asset-specific
behavior over time.

### Asset Types

Asset types represent a class of assets that may be used in the system. These
generally correspond to entries in a product catalog and would be identified
with a SKU rather than a serial number. Asset types capture common metadata
for assets such as weight, dimensions, or other facets that apply across all
assets of the type.

### Assets

Assets are instances of asset types and generally correspond to real-world
entites that might have a unique serial number. Assets may be associated with
one or more devices based on device assignments and these assignments may
change over time. The device assignment history reflects the list of associated
assets over time. For instance, a temporary security badge that is associated
with person assets will have a history of every person the badge was assigned
to. All events for the badge would also be tied to the assignments and could
be filtered based on the person the badge was assigned to.
