# Object Model Overview

<Seo/>

SiteWhere includes a comprehensive object model which contains
entities intended to represent real-world objects that interact
with IoT applications. Many of the concepts remain fairly generic
so that a variety of potential vertical markets may be represented
by the same model.

## Entity Identification

Most SiteWhere entities have two separate unique identifiers. The
primary identifier is a [UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier)
which is assigned by the system when the entity is created and
does not change over the lifetime of the entity. A second identifier,
which is unique within the entity type, is a _token_ which is a
string assigned via the APIs and updated at any time. This approach
allows the token for an entity to change over time if needed
without the need to update the identifier in relations that reference
the entity. All API operations act on the entity token, while all
internal references between entities use the internal UUID.

## Functional Areas

The SiteWhere object model covers many functional areas.

### Device Management

One of the primary functions of an IoT platform is to represent
the devices that the platform interacts with. SiteWhere provides
a comprehensive model for capturing information about the devices
managed by the system and for organizing them so that context is
provided around the data generated by the devices.

### Asset Management

Devices are often deployed in association with real-world assets which derive
some service from the device. Use cases include:

- a tracking device associated with an automobile in the fleet-tracking vertical
- a badge associated with a person in the security vertical
- a heart monitor associated with a bed in a healthcare veritcal

SiteWhere provides an asset management model for storing assets that may be
associated with system devices. External asset management systems may be
provided based on the same set of APIs in cases where assets need to be
managed externally.

### Event Management

The event management model is used to capture temporal events related to
devices. This includes telemetry data and device state changes as well as
audit data such as command invocations and responses. Device events are
stored as time-series data and are generally persisted separately from
device management data due to their temporal nature and large scale
relative to the "master" data.

All device events share common fields such as the date the event
occurred, the date the event was received, the id of the device,
the current device assignment and various associations which
may be used to filter/aggregate event data. In addition, each device
event subtype contains extra data specific to its function.
